|Date|Agenda|
|-------|-----------|
|Mar  1 |**Privacy 1: Fair Information Practice**<br/>Readings: Solove 2006, Garfinkel and Theofanos 2018<br/>Optional Reading: Nissenbaum 2004 |

# Administrivia
## WikiEdu:
* We are now in [Week 8](https://dashboard.wikiedu.org/courses/George_Washington_University/DATS_6450_-_Ethics_for_Data_Science_(Spring_Semester_2022)/timeline#week-8)
* We are half-way done!
* Several of you have fallen behind significantly on the Wikipedia assignment.
* As a reminder, the Wikipedia assignment is the single largest part of your grade! It is also one of the biggest learning experiences of the course.
* Ten out of 13 of you have not completed the 11 training modules.
* Three of you have not completed the 4 exercises.
* Three of you have not chosen an article. (A different three!)
* Six of you have not made any edits on Wikipedia!  Please get started!
* Please email me with your wikipedia username!

# [Journal Club](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1i_ynYOWUPz0v_RICUTWsFoJnEvOYvmVwmvfUs8O9toU/edit#gid=0)
* Presentation 1: [Anuradha Tidke - The Bias in the Machine: Facial Recognition Technology and Racial Disparities](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Q5gMHbbpDS3oIOTc8O6oDWw4mqF0sZHR/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=114142951656037982317&rtpof=true&sd=true)
* Presentation 2: [Rohan Thekanath - Monetizing Your Personal Data](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QOQukWlG4jIxjOPqdHo2P9MHGHMTmM0C/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=114142951656037982317&rtpof=true&sd=true)

# [Fair Information Practice](https://www.databasenation.com/cifp.htm)
## 1973 HEW (Health, Education, Welfare) Advisory Committee on Automated Data Systems

The Code of Fair Information Practices is based on five principles:

1.	There must be no personal data record-keeping systems whose very existence is secret.
2.	There must be a way for a person to find out what information about the person is in a record and how it is used.
3.	There must be a way for a person to prevent information about the person that was obtained for one purpose from being used or made available for other purposes without the person's consent.
4.	There must be a way for a person to correct or amend a record of identifiable information about the person.
5.	Any organization creating, maintaining, using, or disseminating records of identifiable personal data must assure the reliability of the data for their intended use and must take precautions to prevent misuses of the data.

## 1980: OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Personal Data

1. Collection Limitation Principle
2. Data Quality Principle
3. Purpose Specification Principle
4. Use Limitation Principle
5. Security Safeguards Principle
6. Openness Principle
7. Individual Participation Principle
8. Accountability Principle

## FTC Fair Information Practice Principles
1. Notice/Awareness.
2. Choice/Consent. The second widely-accepted core principle of fair information practice is consumer choice or consent.
3. Access/Participation.
4. Integrity/Security.
5. Enforcement/Redress.

## [General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)](https://gdpr.eu/)

1.    Lawfulness, fairness and transparency — Processing must be lawful, fair, and transparent to the data subject.
2.    Purpose limitation — You must process data for the legitimate purposes specified explicitly to the data subject when you collected it.
3.    Data minimization — You should collect and process only as much data as absolutely necessary for the purposes specified.
4.    Accuracy — You must keep personal data accurate and up to date.
5.    Storage limitation — You may only store personally identifying data for as long as necessary for the specified purpose.
6.    Integrity and confidentiality — Processing must be done in such a way as to ensure appropriate security, integrity, and confidentiality (e.g. by using encryption).
7.    Accountability — The data controller is responsible for being able to demonstrate GDPR compliance with all of these principles.

## [California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)](https://oag.ca.gov/privacy/ccpa)
1.    The right to know about the personal information a business collects about them and how it is used and shared;
2.    The right to delete personal information collected from them (with some exceptions);
3.    The right to opt-out of the sale of their personal information; and
4.    The right to non-discrimination for exercising their CCPA rights.

# Discussion
* [Solov 2006](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14L39X82qOy81AbiYvdEzjoI03_b3RTOs/view?usp=sharing)
* [Garfinkel and Theofanos 2018](https://techscience.org/a/2018100903/)
