# Intro 3: Computer-Related Disasters
2022-01-18

Readings:
* Dalcher, “Disaster in London: The LAS case study”
* Barry, "Elon Musk, Self-Driving, and the Dangers of Wishful Thinking."

# Administrivia
## WikiEdu:
* We have 12 students in the class but 13 on the WikiEdu dashboard! This is being resolved.
* 7 students have started on the training modules!
* 1 student has done 2 of the four training exercises!
* By February 29, you should have completed the training for finding your article. Please post the article you plan to write about [in the discussion forum](https://blackboard.gwu.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_365643_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_510200_1&forum_id=_726031_1)
## Discussion Forums:
* As of Monday 8pm, 4 students had posted introductions. Everybody else needs to post! Please do so.  (Students who posted by 9pm on Monday receive full credit; others can still receive half credit). Thanks to:

## Journal Club
* Due to scheduling issues and class size, I've removed the requirement of students to present their article and memo in class. Students will present their memos on Blackboard with recorded presentations.
* Presentation orders were moved around so that everything is not bunched up at the end.

# Outline for today:
1. Introduction to computer-related disasters. What causes it?  Why is it an ethical issue?
2. Therac-25
3. Discussion of the LAS Case Study
4. Analysis of the LAS using the 8 key questions from JMU.
 Let's say you are a data scientist working on this program. What should you do? Let's analyze it using the 8 key questions:

 *  Fairness - How can I (we) act justly, equitably, and balance legitimate interests?
 *  Outcomes - What possible actions achieve the best short- and long-term outcomes for me and all others?
 *  Responsibilities - What duties and/or obligations apply?
 *  Character - What actions help me (us) become my (our) ideal self (selves)?
 *  Liberty - How do I (we) show respect for personal freedom, autonomy, and consent?
 *  Empathy - How would I (we) act if I (we) cared about all involved?
 *  Authority - What do legitimate authorities (e.g. experts, law, my religion/god) expect?
 *  Rights - What rights, if any, (e.g. innate, legal, social) apply?

5. Each student discusses their W2 case study
6. Discussion of Tesla article.
